---
layout: page
title: About us
permalink: /about/
---

This is a blog about starting a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) product.
You know, one of those romanticised businesses that you can, so the
story goes, run from a laptop on an island somewhere.  A business that
provides an online service in exchange for a subscription fee.

There is a [whole](https://www.ycombinator.com/)
[industry](https://www.techstars.com/) around
[funding](https://seed-db.com/accelerators) and creating such
companies, and often a scattershot approach is used -- throw heaps of
money at heaps of long-shot "startup" companies,[^startup] in the
hope that one of them grows so astronomically successful that you
recoup all of your investment and then some.

We don't like this approach -- we're frugal, anti-debt, and we want to
try to build something sustainable.  We have also seen that often, the
only way to become profitable in that model is to completely corner
whatever market you're in, via frequently monopolistic,
anti-competitive, or downright shady tactics.[^shady]

This blog will be about our own, modest approach: with our own labour,
and using our own savings.  We're not looking for triple-digit percent
yearly growth, and we aren't looking to monetise people's private
data.  Basically, what is referred to as just a small business.

It turns out that this is extremely hard.  I'm sure you already got
the pun in this blog's name.  There are resources and communities out
there designed to help, but let's be honest, we haven't yet had much
success.  Instead of being despondent about that, why not write a blog
about our journey?  Worst-case, we have a bunch of posts about
ill-conceived web apps that receive no traffic.  Best-case, we can
learn from the feedback we get, and document what we've tried and
which resources we've found, so that others on this journey might
benefit.  It's a bit of an experiment, and certainly [a challenge to
us][shy-on-the-internet] (since we're shy on the internet), but let's
see what happens!

[shy-on-the-internet]: /2020/07/01/who-are-you.html
[^startup]: Presumably, the difference between a "startup" and a run-of-the-mill small business is that a startup is considered a failure unless it returns 10-100x the investment, whereas a small business could be considered successful if the owner is able to pay their rent and living costs.  See also [How to Evaluate Startup Ideas](https://www.startupschool.org/videos/62) by Kevin Hale.
[^shady]: [Even If You're Trying To Avoid Grubhub By Calling Your Favorite Restaurant Directly, Grubhub Could Still Be Charging It A Fee](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/venessawong/grubhub-phone-order-call-fee-coronavirus), [WeWork and Counterfeit Capitalism](https://mattstoller.substack.com/p/wework-and-counterfeit-capitalism)
